Update library to reflect teleport install systemd addition (#15602)
gravitational/teleport: docs/pages/setup/admin/daemon.mdx

title: Run Teleport as a Daemon
description: Configure Teleport to run as a daemon using systemd
---
On Linux systems in non-containerized environments, we recommend running the `teleport` binary as a daemon using
systemd. Using a daemon helps to ensure that the teleport process can remain running and available regardless of a controlling terminal session or parent process, and opens up additional
configuration options that allow for better optimization, uptime, and availability.

> We have included a default `teleport` daemon configuration in DEB and RPM installed packages, however you must manually start it using `systemctl`. When you install the Teleport binary from source, a systemd daemon is not pre-configured automatically,

Reviewer: Removed this, good observations I can agree with

Once you've installed the `teleport` binary and created a Teleport configuration file, let's create and configure the Teleport daemon.

Systemd is designed to use **unit files**, which are the files used to define and configure
any needed service daemon on systemd, in this case the `teleport` service. The rest of this guide will focus on creating and configuring the `teleport` service daemon depending on your preferred installation method, either a package manager, or from source.

<Tabs>
  <TabItem label="Package Manager Installation">

  We have included a default `teleport` daemon configuration for packages installed with DEM or RPM package managers. To check that this daemon was installed correctly,
  enter the following command:

  ```code
  $ sudo systemctl status teleport
  ```

  You will see output similar to the following, including the file path (`/lib/systemd/system/teleport.service`) that contains the unit file for the systemd configuration being applied:

  ```code
  ● teleport.service - Teleport SSH Service
       Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/teleport.service; disabled; vendor preset: enabled)
       Active: inactive (dead)
  ```

>   Enter the following command to enable the systemd `teleport` daemon. Enabling the daemon using `systemctl` allows systemd to place the daemon in its dependancy tree, ensuring that the teleport service will be automatically restarted on any potential reboot:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Enter the following command to enable the systemd `teleport` daemon. Enabling the daemon using `systemctl` allows systemd to place the daemon in its dependency tree, ensuring that the `teleport` service will be automatically restarted on any potential reboot:
```

  ```code
  $ sudo systemctl enable teleport
  ```

>   Next, enter the following command to start the teleport service daemon:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Next, enter the following command to start the `teleport` service daemon:
```

  ```code
  $ sudo systemctl start teleport
  ```

  Confirm that the Teleport daemon was installed correctly by checking the service status. The following command will output a status of `Active: active (running)`:

  ```code
  $ sudo systemctl status teleport | grep Active
  Active: active (running) since Mon 2022-04-18 18:33:41 UTC; 41s ago
  ```
  </TabItem>

  <TabItem label="Source Installation">

>   In order to more readily support systemd configurations, Teleport is capable of recommending and assisting with the installation of a unit file.

Reviewer 2: Nit: I think we can begin this tab with the next sentence and remove this one without any loss in meaning.

  Enter the following `teleport` command to have Teleport output a systemd unit file to `stdout` to be reviewed and applied as needed:

  ```code
  $ teleport install systemd
  ```

  If the output describes a good configuration for your environment, enter the command once again using the `-o` flag to
  write the output to a file within one of systemd's accepted unit file load paths. For most use cases, we recommend using the path `/etc/systemd/system/teleport.service` for your unit file:

  ```code
  $ sudo teleport install systemd -o /etc/systemd/system/teleport.service
  ```

>   Enable the `teleport` service daemon using `systemctl` so that systemd can place it in its dependancy tree. This also ensures that the `teleport` service will be automatically restarted on any potential reboot:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Enable the `teleport` service daemon using `systemctl` so that systemd can place it in its dependency tree. This also ensures that the `teleport` service will be automatically restarted on any potential reboot:
```

</Notice>

## Install and configure Teleport

If you have not already, select and complete the appropriate installation instructions for your environment.

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

Teleport requires a [configuration yaml file](https://goteleport.com/docs/setup/reference/config/) to be created and configured in order to run. After initial installation, no
configuration file exists until it is manually created by a user. This guide will use a minimal teleport configuration based on defaults, however in production environments we
recommend [reviewing configuration file options](https://goteleport.com/docs/setup/reference/config/) to better suit your own specific needs.

To create the default teleport configuration file, enter the following command:

```code
$ sudo teleport configure -o file
Wrote config to file "/etc/teleport.yaml". Now you can start the server. Happy Teleporting!
```

> ## Creating and Configuring the systemd Daemon

Reviewer 3: @ptgott @rsyracuse let's keep the Step 2/3 structure for now. I plan to add a special plugin that will render this differently as well similar to Vault's docs to communicate that it's only 3 steps total and you are almost there (2/3)

<img width="245" alt="Screen Shot 2022-08-17 at 4 15 43 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/13717/185259787-20e8eb2f-1809-422a-99fa-eec9d5792f12.png">

Reviewer: Re-added the steps, this makes a lot of sense

> Once you've initiially installed the `teleport` binary and created a Teleport configuration file, the Teleport daemon must be created and configured. While a daemon can be created and configured manually, the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Once you've initially installed the `teleport` binary and created a Teleport configuration file,  let's create and configure Teleport daemon.
```

Reviewer 3: nit: switched from passive to active and shortened the sentence according to [On writing well](https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/53343.On_Writing_Well)

Reviewer: Searched for other opportunities to switch to the active voice, including your request and some others

Teleport binary includes tooling to assist users in automatically creating the necessary configuration, and package managers may include a good daemon configuration by default.

Systemd is designed to use [unit files](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.unit.html) which are the primary file used to define and set the conditions for
any needed service daemon on systemd, in this case the `teleport` service. The rest of this guide will focus on creating and configuring the teleport service daemon depending on your preferred installation method, either a package manager, or from source.

### Creating the systemd Daemon following Package Manager Installation

> If Teleport is being installed using a DEB or RPM package manager, a `teleport` systemd daemon configuration will have been included as part of the teleport package installation by default. To check that this daemon was installed correctly,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We included a default `teleport` daemon configuration in DEB or RPM package manager. To check that this daemon was installed correctly,
```

Reviewer: Abbreviated this section largely as requested, this has much better flow

enter the following command:

```code
$ sudo systemctl status teleport
```

Users will see output similar to the following, including the file path (`/lib/systemd/system/teleport.service`) that contains the unit file for the systemd configuration being applied:

```code
● teleport.service - Teleport SSH Service
     Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/teleport.service; disabled; vendor preset: enabled)
     Active: inactive (dead)
```

> The contents of the default unit file will reflect the following defaults:

Reviewer 4: Do you think we need to put the contents of the file here?

One of the reasons for this new command is to reduce the number of duplicated systemd examples we have throughout the code and the docs. If we list the contents here, we have to keep it in sync with future changes.

Maybe instead we could encourage the user to run `teleport install systemd` without the `-o` flag if they want to inspect the default unit file.

Reviewer: This is a really good point in keeping things evergreen, I don't see why the contents of the unit file would be necessary in this document and removed it.

```code
[Unit]
Description=Teleport SSH Service
After=network.target

[Service]
Type=simple
Restart=on-failure
EnvironmentFile=-/etc/default/teleport
ExecStart=/usr/local/bin/teleport start --pid-file=/run/teleport.pid
ExecReload=/bin/kill -HUP $MAINPID
PIDFile=/run/teleport.pid
LimitNOFILE=8192

[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
```

> Users who rely on DEB or RPM can enter the following commands to enable and start the systemd `teleport` daemon at any time. Enabling the daemon using `systemctl` allows systemd to place the daemon in it's dependancy tree, ensuring that the teleport service will be automatically restarted on any potential reboot:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Users who rely on DEB or RPM can enter the following commands to enable and start the systemd `teleport` daemon at any time. Enabling the daemon using `systemctl` allows systemd to place the daemon in its dependancy tree, ensuring that the teleport service will be automatically restarted on any potential reboot:
```

```code
$ sudo systemctl start teleport.service
```

Confirm that the Teleport daemon was installed correctly by checking the service status. The following command should output a status of `Active: active (running)`:

```code
$ sudo systemctl status teleport.service | grep Active
Active: active (running) since Mon 2022-04-18 18:33:41 UTC; 41s ago
```

### Creating the systemd Daemon When Installed From Source

Systemd is designed to use [unit files](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.unit.html) which are the primary file used to define and set the conditions for
any needed service daemon on systemd, in this case the `teleport` service. In order to more easily support systemd configurations, Teleport is capable of recommending and assisting with the installation of a default 
unit file using as little as one command (`teleport install systemd -o /unit/file/load/path`).

The following teleport command will output a [systemd unit file](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/systemd/man/systemd.unit.html) (using `stdout`) to the terminal to be reviewed and used as needed:

```code
$ teleport install systemd
```

The output will resemble the following:

```code

> [Unit]

Reviewer 4: Same comment as above - I'd prefer to not have this snippet pasted in a bunch of different places.

Reviewer: This has been removed

## Step 1/3. Install and configure Teleport

If you have not already, select and complete the appropriate installation instructions for your environment.

(!docs/pages/includes/install-linux.mdx!)

Teleport requires a configuration YAML file to be created and configured in order to run. After initial installation, no
configuration file exists until we create it. This guide will use a minimal teleport configuration based on defaults, however in production environments we
recommend reviewing configuration file options to better suit your own specific needs.

To create the default teleport configuration file, enter the following command:

```code
$ sudo teleport configure -o file
Wrote config to file "/etc/teleport.yaml". Now you can start the server. Happy Teleporting!
```

## Step 2/3. Creating and Configuring the systemd Daemon

Once you've initially installed the `teleport` binary and created a Teleport configuration file, let's create and configure the teleport daemon.

> Systemd is designed to use **unit files**, which are the primary file used to define and set the conditions for

Reviewer: Reworded this a bit. The path of the configuration file helps defines permissions and load order when used as intended. The wording in this paragraph was intended as a nod to that, but I'm avoiding going into greater length since I think that explainer is a little outside of the scope of the issue we're trying to resolve in this guide and could instead cause confusion. I worded this mostly per your recommendations because I think confusion is a risk otherwise. Resolving for now, but let me know if you have additional feedback!

```code
$ sudo systemctl start teleport
```

Confirm that the Teleport daemon was installed correctly by checking the service status. The following command will output a status of `Active: active (running)`:

```code
$ sudo systemctl status teleport | grep Active
Active: active (running) since Mon 2022-04-18 18:33:41 UTC; 41s ago
```

### Creating the systemd Daemon When Installed From Source

Systemd is designed to use **unit files** which are the primary file used to define and set the conditions for
any needed service daemon on systemd, in this case the `teleport` service. In order to more easily support systemd configurations, Teleport is capable of recommending and assisting with the installation of a default
unit file using as little as one command (`teleport install systemd -o /unit/file/load/path`).

Enter the following teleport command to have teleport output a systemd unit file (using `stdout`) to the terminal to be reviewed and applied as needed:

```code
$ teleport install systemd
```

If the output describes a good configuration for your environment, enter the command once again using the `-o` flag to
write the output to the directory path of the unit file itself.

> The file path `/etc/systemd/system/teleport.service` is recommended in most use cases as the optimal **unit file load path**,

Reviewer: I played around with the wording of this, but had a hard time finding a way to mention the recommended load path following the command itself that didn't feel as though it could be confusing to readers. I generally try to describe commands fully before guiding readers to enter them both so that readers can always intuit when the guide is moving on to the next step, and to avoid situations where readers may enter a command that changes their configuration before having an understanding of what the command will be doing. The risk of using the wrong load path in this guide is pretty low, but I do still feel it's worth mentioning for fringe cases

</Admonition>

## Understanding Teleport daemon command line options for unit file configuration

The `teleport install systemd` command includes a number of optional flags that you can use to strictly define parameters of the generated unit file and set where that output will be written.
The following table includes all command line options available with the `teleport install systemd` command, a brief description of what they do, and our general recommended defaults tested on **Ubuntu 20.04 LTS**:

| Flag | Description | General Recommended Default |
| --- | ----------- | ---- |

> | --fd-limit | The maximum number of open file descriptors, definted by `LimitNOFILE` in the unit file. |  **--fd-limit=8192** |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `--fd-limit` | The maximum number of open file descriptors, defined by `LimitNOFILE` in the unit file. |  `--fd-limit=8192` |
```

> | --env-file | The path to the `EnvironmentFile` defined by the system unit file, containing any potential variables to be used in the configuration. | **--envfile=/etc/default/teleport** |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `--env-file` | The path to the `EnvironmentFile` defined by the system unit file, containing any variables to be used in the configuration. | `--envfile=/etc/default/teleport` |
```

Reviewer 2: Also, when would a user want to change this?

> | --pid-file | The path to the pid file containing the process identification number. | **--pid-file=/run/teleport.pid** |

Reviewer 2: When would someone want to change this?

Reviewer: These are largely just to allow for increased customizability and shouldn't deviate from the default configuration often, but do have some potential benefits. The `--fd-limit` and the open file descriptors mentioned relate to memory. Since the open file descriptors have to be suspended in memory this limit sets the bounds for the process. Competing processes or higher expected memory usage by teleport could call for an increase of the --fd-limit. 

 The file paths to the --env-file and --pid-file are good defaults, but on certain distros or other unique configurations someone setting up teleport may find themselves needing to store those files within a different directory either because the path they're trying to use is not a good default, files are stored in a different location, permissions need to be set more finely for services given a certain environment or use case etc.... 
 
 I'm happy to readjust wording around the flags if we wanted or needed, especially if you anticipate the way i'm presenting this information may cause some friction, it's possible there may be context I'm missing.

Reviewer 4: The `--fd-limit` is the one most likely to need changing. We even document on our scaling page that large clusters should bump it to 65535.

The other two I imagine will work fine with the defaults in almost all cases. We just exposed flags for these because relying on hard-coded paths when there are so many linux distros out there with subtle differences felt like a bad idea.

> | --pid-file | The path to the pid file containing the process identification number. | **--pid-file=/run/teleport.pid** |

Reviewer 2: Like the previous rows, I think it would make more sense to put flag examples in code style to make it explicit that these are possible parts of the `teleport install systemd` command.

| --teleport-path | The full path to the `teleport` binary. | **--teleport-path=/usr/local/bin/teleport** |

> | -o, --output | The full unit file load path which will define where to create and store the system unit file itself. This flag is used to write the output to the designated file. | **--output=/etc/systemd/system/teleport.service** |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `-o`, `--output` | The full unit file load path, which will define where to create and store the system unit file itself. This flag is used to write the output to the designated file. | `--output=/etc/systemd/system/teleport.service` |
```

If using the recommended defaults, you can enter all command line options in a single command as follows:

```code

> teleport install systemd \

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ teleport install systemd \
```
So the docs engine renders the command correctly in the `code` snippet

</Admonition>

> ## Understanding Teleport Daemon Command Line Options for Unit File Configuration

Reviewer 2: Should this content be in the [CLI reference](https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/blob/d6e3202a49627d3e3043c5ebd7545e4fc5b64da3/docs/pages/setup/reference/cli.mdx)? Then we can add a link to this section of the CLI reference in the "Next steps" section.

Reviewer: It should be, but for now the CLI reference, specifically for the `teleport` command appears to be out of date beyond just the daemon config, and I felt it may cause friction if we link to a patchwork fix for the CLI reference to address systemd without a more focused effort for `teleport` subcommands as a whole. I created a separate issue to address this and it's next on my list of things to do should no other task need to be prioritized first. 

For the time being I felt it would be best to update the doc highlighting the feature directly until the CLI reference gets a larger overhaul since other features of the CLI users may need aren't documented, but I am happy to begin that work now within this PR if you feel that may be better. 

https://github.com/gravitational/teleport/issues/15592

| Flag | Description | General Recommended Default |
| --- | ----------- | ---- |
| --fd-limit | The maximum number of open file descriptors, definted by `LimitNOFILE` in the unit file. |  **--fd-limit=8192** |
| --env-file | The path to the `EnvironmentFile` defined by the system unit file, containing any potential variables to be used in the configuration. | **--envfile=/etc/default/teleport** |
| --pid-file | The path to the pid file containing the process identification number. | **--pid-file=/run/teleport.pid** |
| --teleport-path | The full path to the teleport binary. | **--teleport-path=/usr/local/bin/teleport** |
| -o, --output | The full unit file load path which will define where to create and store the system unit file itself. This flag is used to write the output to the designated file. | **--output=/etc/systemd/system/teleport.service** |

If using the recommended defaults, you can enter all command line options in a single command as follows:

```code
teleport install systemd \
--fd-limit=8192 \
--env-file=/etc/default/teleport \
--pid-file=/run/teleport.pid \
--teleport-path=/usr/local/bin/teleport \
--output=/etc/systemd/system/teleport.service
```

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Next steps
```
Since we use sentence case for headings

In this guide, we showed you how to run `teleport start` as a systemd service.
To see all commands that you can run via the `teleport` binary, see the
[Teleport CLI Reference](../reference/cli.mdx#teleport).

While we used a minimal configuration in this guide, for a production Teleport
cluster, you should consult our
[Configuration Reference](../reference/config.mdx) to create your configuration file.

If you need information on how `systemctl reload teleport` works, see our guide to

> [upgrading a teleport binary](./upgrading-the-teleport-binary.mdx).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[upgrading a Teleport binary](./upgrading-the-teleport-binary.mdx).
```
